HLS - Http Live Streaming

HLS resembles MPEG-DASH in that it works by breaking the overall stream into a sequence of small HTTP-based file downloads, each download loading one short chunk of an overall potentially unbounded transport stream

A list of available streams, encoded at different bit rates, is sent to the client using an extended M3U playlist

Uses HTTP as the protocol

The standard also includes a standard encryption mechanism[4] and secure-key distribution using HTTPS,

Later versions of the protocol also provide for trick-mode fast-forward and rewind and for integration of subtitles.

Server Responsibilities:
Encoder: codify video files in H.264 format and audio in AAC, MP3, AC-3 or EC-3.[7] This is encapsulated by MPEG-2 Transport Stream to carry it.
Segmenter: divides the MPEG-2 TS file into fragments of equal length, kept as .ts files. It also creates an index file that contains references of the fragmented files, saved as .m3u8.

Features
To enable a player to adapt to the bandwidth of the network, the original video is encoded in several distinct quality levels. The server serves an index, called a "master playlist", of these encodings, called "variant streams".
The master playlist can list duplicate variant streams that have the same level of quality but are hosted by different servers. This enables the player to swap to a different server for a given bitrate if one of the servers fails. This grants a degree of high availability to serving streams.

HLS uses mpeg-2 encoding
Each segment is usually 10 seconds in duration and has the extension .ts. H264 has to be used as the video codec.
A separate manifest file then links to those segments. This contains the metadata about the stream and has the extension .m3u8.
A manifest file can link to other manifest files. This allows one of the most useful abilities of HLS (and DASH): adaptive streaming. That is to switch streams, mid-stream, adapting to the available bandwidth.
HLS was developed by Apple, it is the only method of video streaming currently supported on iOS (iPad, iPhone) and is supported natively within its Mac Safari browser too.
As of June 2016, on desktop PCs running Windows, only Microsoft’s Edge browser can play HLS natively.


 DASH - Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
 * competitor to HLS
 * also over HTTP
 MPEG-DASH works by breaking the content into a sequence of small HTTP-based file segments, each segment containing a short interval of playback time of content that is potentially many hours in duration,
 The content is made available at a variety of different bit rates, i.e., alternative segments encoded at different bit rates covering aligned short intervals of playback time.
 While the content is being played back by an MPEG-DASH client, the client automatically selects from the alternatives the next segment to download and play based on current network conditions

A media presentation description (MPD) describes segment information (timing, URL, media characteristics like video resolution and bit rates),
 Segments can contain any media data, however the specification provides specific guidance and formats for use with two types of containers: ISO base media file format (e.g. MP4 file format) or MPEG-2 Transport Stream.

 YouTube as well as Netflix already support MPEG-DASH, and different MPEG-DASH players are available.
it splits a larger file into much smaller segments. Usually these segments are shorted than with HLS, with 2 to 4 second durations being common. However unlike HLS, DASH does not require a specific codec. The video could be encoded using H264, however VP9 and H265 are also popular.
Like with HLS, a manifest file (the .mpd, media presentation description, file) contains the metadata for the stream, along with links to the segments. And again, there can be a master manifest that links to ones encoded at different bit-rates.

Unlike HLS, DASH has been adopted as an international standard. Indeed it is the first adaptive bit-rate HTTP format to become one. As such, it is likely to be the most common format going forward.

Another key difference between DASH and HLS is in its support for DRM. DASH is needed to deliver content using Widevine (from Google) and PlayReady (from Microsoft). There isn’t a single, universal DRM solution supported by all browsers and so a combination is needed. For example Google’s Chrome supports Widevine, whereas Microsoft’s Internet Explorer supports PlayReady. However fortunately content can be encrypted just once by using MPEG-CENC (MPEG Common Encryption) in conjunction with Encrypted Media Extensions (EME).

------------

HLS and DASH are two rival formats for delivering video over the web. HLS is older and widely supported, however shows no likelihood of becoming an official standard format. DASH is newer, more efficient, and has become a standard. However it is not supported natively within HTML5.

HLS has been around longest, and is widely adopted
DASH is newer, and is a standard, but is not as well supported - high license costs

-----------

The dominant video codec among survey participants is
definitely  H.264/AVC,
